feat: Add skill to guide agent to use ADK tools in DX MCP @W-22047442 (#200)
forcedotcom/afv-library: skills/generating-lwc/SKILL.md

---
name: generating-lwc
description: "Enforce use of Salesforce LWC MCP tools before generating any Lightning Web Component code, examples, or tests. Use when creating, modifying, reviewing, optimizing, migrating, or generating LWC code or tests, including accessibility, wire adapters, LDS/UI API, GraphQL in LWC, SLDS usage, and mobile device capabilities."
---

# Skill: lwc-development
Intent
- Enforce HARD REQUIREMENT to use Salesforce LWC MCP tools before emitting any LWC code, examples, or tests.
Trigger Conditions
- Any request that asks to create, modify, review, optimize, migrate, or generate Lightning Web Components (LWC) code or tests.

> - Mentions or implications of LWC files: .js, .html, .css, .xml (.js-meta.xml), wire adapters, LDS/UI API, GraphQL in LWC, SLDS usage in LWC.

Reviewer: Given that some tools aren't lwc specific (e.g. a11y and security) I wonder whether or not it should just be scoped to LWC

Ultimately, those tools are the outliers in this regard, so I'm not really sure if I have a better idea

- Mobile LWC device capabilities: Barcode Scanner, Contacts, Biometrics, NFC, Location, Geofencing, Document Scanner, AR Space Capture, App Review.
Hard Requirements
Before any LWC code is produced, the agent MUST call one or more of these MCP tools based on scope:
   - General LWC guidance:
     - guide_lwc_development (mode=analysis for discovery; mode=fix if user provided code to be corrected)

>      - guide_lwc_best_practices (when the goal is guidance, patterns, or conventions)
>      - guide_lws_security (when security/LWS concerns are involved)
>      - guide_design_general (when SLDS/UX questions exist)
>    - LDS / UI API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - guide_design_general (when SLDS/UX questions exist)
   - Accessibility Guidance
     - guide_copmonent_accessibility (to audit/fix components for accessibility compliance)
   - LDS / UI API:
```

Reviewer: or could it include in the general lwc guidance section instead

     - explore_lds_uiapi (to retrieve adapter API or UI API types)
     - guide_lds_development (general LDS guidance)
     - guide_lds_referential_integrity (referential integrity guidance)
     - guide_lds_data_consistency (data consistency patterns)
   - GraphQL via LDS:
     - guide_lds_graphql (MUST be called; only use its sub-tools through this orchestrator)
       - Sub-tools are NOT to be called directly: create_lds_graphql_read_query, create_lds_graphql_mutation_query, fetch_lds_graphql_schema, test_lds_graphql_query
   - Mobile features (call the specific tool BEFORE producing code):
     - create_mobile_lwc_barcode_scanner
     - create_mobile_lwc_contacts
     - create_mobile_lwc_biometrics
     - create_mobile_lwc_document_scanner
     - create_mobile_lwc_location
     - create_mobile_lwc_geofencing
     - create_mobile_lwc_nfc
     - create_mobile_lwc_ar_space_capture
     - create_mobile_lwc_app_review
   - Testing and quality:
     - orchestrate_lwc_component_testing (for end-to-end Jest test generation/validation)
     - review_lwc_jest_tests (feedback-only)

>      - run_lwc_accessibility_jest_tests (Sa11y guidance and commands)

Reviewer: I think we should probably remove this. It's unlikely that most users will have sa11y configured, based on my understanding, and will lead the agent toward trying to validate with a tool that likely isn't present
```suggestion
```

---
name: generating-lwc

> description: "Enforce use of Salesforce LWC MCP tools before generating any Lightning Web Component code, examples, or tests. Use when creating, modifying, reviewing, optimizing, migrating, or generating LWC code or tests, including accessibility, wire adapters, LDS/UI API, GraphQL in LWC, SLDS usage, and mobile device capabilities."

Reviewer 2: It looks like the purpose of this skill is to enforce the calling of the MCP tool. What issues were you facing using only the MCP tools without having this skill in place? I am trying to understand why this skill is even required.

Author: There are details capturing the purpose/issues we have been facing in the PC description.
